colcannon a very famous traditional
Irish potato and cabbage recipe
traditionally served around Christmas
time so we'll kick off by preparing the
cabbage i'm using sweetheart cabbage
today which is this shape cabbage not as
fibrous as your coleslaw cabbage one of
my favorites to use justly to finally
shred that and then a big patch of
steaming mashed potatoes so I've already
seemed my potatoes I've used rooster
potatoes for the mesh so they're just
busy drying out the more they dry out
the fluffy of the mash is that we're
going to have some start off by just
gently stir frying and brazing and my
final shredded up my finely
shredded sweetheart cabbage there's a
tongue twister so lots of butter mount
that down oh it says losses all
and to this we're going to add our
finally shredded sweetheart cabbage
trying as much into the pan there
that's as much as I'm going to be able
to squash in and then I had a very
unusual ingredient that I use for my
fried cabbage that goes into my car
canon and that is a couple of
tablespoons of strong tea so make
yourself a mug of tea and just splash in
a cup of tablespoons of the team here
creating all their skin and what that
does that raises the cabbage the
braising is a cooking method we're
buying you fry a vegetable or piece of
meat with oil or butter and you ever
liquid to it so that works really really
well for something a cabbage that's
really fibrous so you could use any
cabbage for this it's a boy cabbage a
regular white coleslaw cabbage I've just
chosen to use a sweetheart cabbage one
of my favorites so it's up to you how
crunch your cabbage is going to be you
can lightly stir fry it at the point or
you can carry and cook into a little bit
softer I think for canon it's nice to
have a slightly softer cabbage so the
tea is going to add a lovely warm nutty
taste to the cabbage and when Ed's
plenty of black pepper black pepper and
braised cabbage go really really well
together so while that's cooking away in
doing the things you already see it's
reduced down moisture is coming out of
it and it's braising down that nicely is
we're going to make our mashed potato so
a couple of tips for good mashed potato
ideally steam your potatoes i use reis /
tato so there is licensed floppy as
possible I listened to drain in a
colander so some of the moisture is
going to evaporate and in this patch
I've heated up butter and creme fraiche
so any liquid you using needs to be
piping hot before adding to the potato
if you don't make sure it's piping hot
the potato will have this really weird
glue-like consistency like carpentry
view it's really really not nice so I've
used a creme fraiche which is a sour
cream but it's nice and thick lots of
salt and black pepper add a little bit
more I should have come to my cabbage
while I'm here
lots of black pepper and now it's just a
little bit of elbow grease now you need
to make sure that your potatoes are
piping hot still when you're mashing
them otherwise they go gray and it
doesn't really affect the flavor but it
just doesn't look very nice so mash mash
mash it's better to either use potato
masher or do it by hand as im doing it I
find a food processor and this you've
got the right blade and you're doing it
very very carefully can actually give a
strange texture to the mesh you can get
a volunteer to help you with us if you
want to but that's lovely light fluffy
mash it's still creamy so it's nice
balance of textures my cabbage is
looking great multi-tasker a little bit
see all the t's evaporated it's done its
job it steamed the cabbage a little
would continue mashing so we're going to
mix the two of these together and
colcannon it's a traditional Halloween
dish so you can serve it as a side dish
for almost anything go is particularly
well with pork dishes and chicken dishes
and really any casseroles do the Cabbage
just adds a little bit of something
extra special so this should be smooth
and lump free it's important at this
point just check for the seasoning it's
lovely a little bit nicer you think it's
quite creamy and last little mesh
you can see this little steaming hot so
that will give us really light fluffy
mesh so my cabbage is perfect all the
t's evaporated and start to get slightly
brown and crispy on the outside so we
good with that what am I measure now I'm
sitting looking forward to this and that
even looks really attractive on a table
fluffy creamy mash with a green of the
cabbage so scoop this out into a big
serving dish go
excellent don't leave anything behind
maybe a little bit for the chef to mop
up click the blast or mix
and there we go Queenie co.cavan mesh